## Introduction

Hi, my name is Qiang Liu, currently a Post.Doc. at EPFL. I obtained my Ph.D. at
Zhejiang University (ZJU) in 2023. Before going to ZJU, I obtained my bachelor
at Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT). My research focuses on system and
software security. I have broad interests in attacks and defenses cover
different areas, namely virtualization and operating systems. Besides research,
I'm also interested in badminton, biking and road trips. Feel free to contact me
via this long term email address: cyruscyliu@gmail.com.

[CV](./Qiang_s_CV.pdf)
[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=fa1uB2sAAAAJ&hl=en)
[GitHub](https://github.com/cyruscyliu)
[Twitter](https://www.twitter.com/qiangliu717)

## News

[Our paper "ViDeZZo: Dependency-aware Virtual Device Fuzzing" got accepted at
IEEESP 2023!](https://twitter.com/gannimo/status/1644323216020701186)

Glad to join the Program Committee within the ASE'22 Artifact Evaluation track!

[Our Paper "ECMO: Peripheral Transplantation to Rehost Embedded Linux Kernels"
got accepted at
CCS'21!](https://twitter.com/qiangliu717/status/1440590703067758592)

[Our Paper "FirmGuide: Boosting the Capability of Rehosting Embedded
Linux Kernels through Model-Guided Kernel Execution" got accepted at
@ASE_conf 2021! #ASE2021 @zhclhy @JMuhui
@yajinzhou.](https://twitter.com/qiangliu717/status/1413674256152637441?s=20)

## Projects

0x03 Hypervisor (Virtual Devices) Fuzzing

This project tries to discover vulnerabilities in both open-source and
closed-source virtual devices and fix them as early as possible. This has very
much benefit for cloud providers and users.  Relative research paper is [ViDeZZo
(1st author)](./papers/videzzo-sp23.pdf) and [HyperPill (2nd
author)](./papers/hyperpill-sec24.pdf).

We open source the following projects.

+ [ViDeZZo](https://github.com/HexHive/videzzo) can fuzz QEMU/VirtualBox virtual
devices in a scalable and efficient way. (Author and Maintainer)

+ [ViDeZZo LLVM Project](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/videzzo-llvm-project),
forked from LLVM Project 13, contains the compiler/libFuzzer we use to compile
QEMU/VirtualBox virtual devices. (Author and Maintainer)

+ [buildroot-external-packages](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/buildroot-external-packages)
provides a template for your own userspace programs and kernel modules into a
Buildroot kernel. I've been using this a lot to reproduce QEMU bugs. (Author and Maintainer)

0x02 Embedded System Rehosting

This project tries to rehost embedded Linux kernels for routers, cameras, and
other high-end devices. Then, we can dynamically analyze bugs or
vulnerabilities, detect bugs or vulnerabilities, make honey pots, detect and
inspect malware. Relative research papers are [FirmGuide (ASE'21,
co-first-authors)](./papers/firmguide-ase21.pdf), and [ECMO (CCS'21, 4th
author)](./papers/ecmo-ccs21.pdf).

We open source the following projects.

+ [pyqemulog](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/pyqemulog) is the qemu-log ported to
Python. It converts the structured trace generated by QEMU with -d to JSON.
(Author and Maintainer)

+ [llbic](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/llbic), which is short for LLVM Linux
Build Issues Collection, helps compile old Linux kernels in LLVM bitcode. It
replaces GCC to clang and adjusts other flags in the make command lines to
generate bitcode files, and then links them all together to a `vmlinux.bc`.
(Co-authors and Maintainer)

+ [openwrt-build-docker](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/openwrt-build-docker)
supports automatically building the OpenWrt project given a target/subtarget of
a specific OpenWrt revision from 10.03 to 19.07.1. (Co-author and Maintainer)

+ [FirmGuide](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/firmguide) can help you to develop a
QEMU virtual machine for a Linux-based embedded system, especially boosting the
capability of dynamic analysis of the corresponding Linux kernel. In the
emulator, you can debug, trace, and test the Linux kernel to collect runtime
information that can be used to understand vulnerabilities, PoCs, root causes of
crashes in the Linux kernel. FirmGuide is an effectively complementary to
Firmadyne that focuses on user space programs - FirmGuide focuses on the Linux
kernel. (Co-author and Maintainer)

+ [ECMO](https://github.com/valour01/ecmo) receives a firmware image, and it can
successfully re-host the Linux kernel inside the image to get the shell.  Due to
the variety of peripherals in embedded firmware images. It is rather hard to
build a general emulator that supports all kinds of machines. The basic idea of
ECMO is to transplant the peripherals by support ones into the target Linux
kernel, hence solve the problem of peripheral variety. (Maintainer)

0x01 Android Authentication (Archived)

This project tries to evaluate existing and propose new implicit continuous
authentication approaches. The implicit continuous authentication can be a
second authentication factor for fingerprint and face identification. I joined
this project as an intern and then proposed this project to be my final project
for my Bachelor's degree. Relative research papers are [RiskCog
(TMC'20)](./papers/riskcog-tmc20.pdf), [ESPIALCOG (TMC'20)(5th
author)](./papers/espialcog-tmc20.pdf), [One Cycle Attack (TIFS'20) (3rd
author)](./papers/one-cycle-attack-tifs20.pdf), and [TRAPCOG (TMC'23) (3rd
author)](./papers/trapcog-tmc23.pdf).

0x00 Network Protocol Fuzzing (Archived)

This project tries to fuzz network protocols, especially router protocols. I
joined this project as an intern and wrote several Peach Pits by 1) learning the
grammar of Peach Pit, 2) understanding specific network protocols via their
specifications, 3) collaborating with others to deploy our Peach Pits.
