## Introduction

Hi, my name is Qiang Liu, living in Lausanne (Switzerland), coming from a
northern village ([Jiayin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jiayin_County)) in
China. My research focuses on system and software security. I have broad
interests in attacks and defenses cover different areas, namely trusted
computation, virtualization, operating systems, and user-space applications.
Feel free to contact me via this long term email address: cyruscyliu@gmail.com.

Before going to ZJU, I got my bachelor at Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT).
During my PhD, I visited HEXHIVE at EPFL from 2021.08 to 2022.03.

In 2023/02, I came to HEXHIVE again to do collaborative research. At the same
time, I am writing my Ph.D. thesis and plan to graduate in 2023/09 from Zhejiang
University (ZJU).

Besides research, I'm also interested in badminton, hiking, biking and road
trips.

[CV](./Qiang_s_CV.pdf)
[Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=fa1uB2sAAAAJ&hl=en)
[GitHub](https://github.com/cyruscyliu)
[Twitter](https://www.twitter.com/qiangliu717)

## News

[Our paper "ViDeZZo: Dependency-aware Virtual Device Fuzzing" got accepted at
IEEESP 2023!](https://twitter.com/gannimo/status/1644323216020701186)

Glad to join the Program Committee within the ASE'22 Artifact Evaluation track!

[Our Paper "ECMO: Peripheral Transplantation to Rehost Embedded Linux Kernels"
got accepted at
CCS'21!](https://twitter.com/qiangliu717/status/1440590703067758592)

[Our Paper "FirmGuide: Boosting the Capability of Rehosting Embedded
Linux Kernels through Model-Guided Kernel Execution" got accepted at
@ASE_conf 2021! #ASE2021 @zhclhy @JMuhui
@yajinzhou.](https://twitter.com/qiangliu717/status/1413674256152637441?s=20)

## Projects

0x03 Hypervisor (Virtual Devices) Fuzzing

This project tries to discover vulnerabilities in virtual devices and fix them
as early as possible. This has very much benefit for cloud providers and users.
Relative research paper is [ViDeZZo (1st author)](./papers/videzzo-sp23.pdf).

We open source the following projects.

+ [ViDeZZo](https://github.com/HexHive/videzzo) can fuzz QEMU/VirtualBox virtual
devices in a scalable and efficient way. (Author and Maintainer)

+ [ViDeZZo LLVM Project](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/videzzo-llvm-project),
forked from LLVM Project 13, contains the compiler/libFuzzer we use to compile
QEMU/VirtualBox virtual devices. (Author and Maintainer)

+ [buildroot-external-packages](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/buildroot-external-packages)
provides a template for your own userspace programs and kernel modules into a
Buildroot kernel. I've been using this a lot to reproduce QEMU bugs. (Author and Maintainer)

0x02 Embedded System Rehosting

This project tries to rehost embedded Linux kernels for routers, cameras, and
other high-end devices. Then, we can dynamically analyze bugs or
vulnerabilities, detect bugs or vulnerabilities, make honey pots, detect and
inspect malware. Relative research papers are [FirmGuide (ASE'21,
co-first-authors)](./papers/firmguide-ase21.pdf), and [ECMO (CCS'21, 4th
author)](./papers/ecmo-ccs21.pdf).

We open source the following projects.

+ [pyqemulog](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/pyqemulog) is the qemu-log ported to
Python. It converts the structured trace generated by QEMU with -d to JSON.
(Author and Maintainer)

+ [llbic](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/llbic), which is short for LLVM Linux
Build Issues Collection, helps compile old Linux kernels in LLVM bitcode. It
replaces GCC to clang and adjusts other flags in the make command lines to
generate bitcode files, and then links them all together to a `vmlinux.bc`.
(Co-authors and Maintainer)

+ [openwrt-build-docker](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/openwrt-build-docker)
supports automatically building the OpenWrt project given a target/subtarget of
a specific OpenWrt revision from 10.03 to 19.07.1. (Co-author and Maintainer)

+ [FirmGuide](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/firmguide) can help you to develop a
QEMU virtual machine for a Linux-based embedded system, especially boosting the
capability of dynamic analysis of the corresponding Linux kernel. In the
emulator, you can debug, trace, and test the Linux kernel to collect runtime
information that can be used to understand vulnerabilities, PoCs, root causes of
crashes in the Linux kernel. FirmGuide is an effectively complementary to
Firmadyne that focuses on user space programs - FirmGuide focuses on the Linux
kernel. (Co-author and Maintainer)

+ [ECMO](https://github.com/valour01/ecmo) receives a firmware image, and it can
successfully re-host the Linux kernel inside the image to get the shell.  Due to
the variety of peripherals in embedded firmware images. It is rather hard to
build a general emulator that supports all kinds of machines. The basic idea of
ECMO is to transplant the peripherals by support ones into the target Linux
kernel, hence solve the problem of peripheral variety. (Maintainer)

0x01 Android Authentication (Archived)

This project tries to evaluate existing and propose new implicit continuous
authentication approaches. The implicit continuous authentication can be a
second authentication factor for fingerprint and face identification. I joined
this project as an intern and then proposed this project to be my final project
for my Bachelor's degree. Relative research papers are [RiskCog
(TMC'20)](./papers/riskcog-tmc20.pdf), [ESPIALCOG (TMC'20)(5th
author)](./papers/espialcog-tmc20.pdf), [One Cycle Attack (TIFS'20) (3rd
author)](./papers/one-cycle-attack-tifs20.pdf), and [TRAPCOG (TMC'23) (3rd
author)](./papers/trapcog-tmc23.pdf).

0x00 Network Protocol Fuzzing (Archived)

This project tries to fuzz network protocols, especially router protocols. I
joined this project as an intern and wrote several Peach Pits by 1) learning the
grammar of Peach Pit, 2) understanding specific network protocols via their
specifications, 3) collaborating with others to deploy our Peach Pits.

## Posts

Please raise [issues](https://github.com/cyruscyliu/cyruscyliu.github.io/issues)
if any questions or comments.

Generic discussion to be finished

* [Technology Transfer and Practices Under Control](posts/2022-08-30-technology-transfer.md)
* [How to Do [System|Software] (Security) Research](posts/2021-09-07-Research-Philosophy.md)
* [Principles of Research Presentation](posts/2021-08-27-Principle-of-Presentation.md)

Random notes

+ [2022-06-22 Windows, Windows Subsystem Linux (WSL), VirtualBox Ubuntu, Native Ubuntu](posts/2022-06-22-wsl-vm-native-machine.md)
+ [2022-05-17 A layered experiment environment](posts/2022-05-17-vm-docker-pythonenv.md)
+ [2021-12-13 A brief summary of CS-725](posts/2021-12-13-Summary-of-CS725.md)
+ [2021-11-03 Coverage Control in libFuzzer](./posts/2021-11-02-libFuzzer-cov-control.md)
+ [2021-11-18 ASE'21 - FirmGuide](./posts/2021-11-15-ase-firmguide.md)
+ [2021-10-27 Introduction to Bhyve](./posts/2021-10-27-introduction-to-bhyve.md)
+ [2021-10-24 CS-725 Presentation - Fuzz Testing](./posts/2021-10-22-fuzzing-presentation.md)
+ [2021-09-03 Coding Skills for Research](posts/2021-09-03-Summary-Research-SE.md)
+ [2021-08-18 Display in QEMU](./posts/2021-08-18-Display-in-QEMU.md)
+ [2020-11-30 Clang, wllvm, passes, QEMU for x86_64](./posts/2020-11-30-wllvm-clang-qemu-x86_64.md)
+ [2020-11-18 Buildroot, QEMU and Linux kernel for x86_64](./posts/2020-11-18-buildroot-qemu-x86_64.md)
+ [2019-11-23 Summary of CCS'19 (London)](./posts/2019-11-23-CCS-London-Summary.md)

Hangzhou ZJU 2018

+ [2018-04-07 在杭州的100天-第二十七天](./posts/2018-04-07-在杭州的100天-第二十七天.md)
+ [2018-03-28 在杭州的100天-第十天](./posts/2018-03-28-在杭州的100天-第十天.md)
+ [2018-03-11 在杭州的100天-第九天](./posts/2018-03-11-在杭州的100天-第九天.md)
+ [2018-03-08 在杭州的100天-第三天](./posts/2018-03-10-在杭州的100天-第三天.md)
+ [2018-03-08 在杭州的100天-第二天](./posts/2018-03-08-在杭州的100天-第二天.md)
+ [2018-03-08 在杭州的100天-第一天](./posts/2018-03-08-在杭州的100天-第一天.md)

Australia ANU early 2018

+ [2018-02-07 ANU暑期学校-尾声](./posts/2018-02-07-ANU暑期学校-尾声.md)
+ [2018-02-07 ANU暑期学校-生活和工作](./posts/2018-02-07-ANU暑期学校-生活和工作.md)
+ [2018-02-01 ANU暑期学校-我的矛盾](./posts/2018-02-01-ANU暑期学校-我的矛盾.md)
+ [2018-01-21 ANU暑期学校-惊奇](./posts/2018-01-21-ANU暑期学校-惊奇.md)
+ [2018-01-19 ANU暑期学校-我的矛盾（提纲）](./posts/2018-01-19-ANU暑期学校-我的矛盾（提纲）.md)
+ [2018-01-24 ANU暑期学校-绽放](./posts/2018-01-24-ANU暑期学校-绽放.md)
+ [2018-01-23 ANU暑期学校-无题](./posts/2018-01-23-ANU暑期学校-无题.md)
