# Doing Research - Part 10: Crisis of Prosperit: Internal Shortcuts and External Setbacks

<!-- more -->

**Academic prosperity? In reality, it’s bad money driving out good.** The
growing number of students in cybersecurity research has led to a surge in paper
production, creating the illusion of progress. But this rapid expansion has
strained the peer review system—reviewers are being added hastily, review cycles
are getting shorter, and as a result, the quality of reviews is declining.
Meanwhile the same time, research supervision is becoming increasingly
superficial, with many mentors unable or unwilling to provide meaningful
guidance.

**Shortcuts undermine fairness.** From ghostwriting and ghost-submission to
collusion in peer review, the use of shortcuts in academic publishing is
corroding the foundation of merit-based evaluation. Initiatives like ACM Protect
aim to combat these practices—not to target outright academic fraud, but to
restore fairness by eliminating unfair advantages. While such crackdowns may
bring a sense of justice to those who follow the rules, they also produce
unintended consequences: Chinese professors may fail performance evaluations,
students may be unable to graduate, and faculty with blemished records can
become targets of political manipulation. The broader fallout is
reputational—China’s academic image is further damaged, not just by geopolitics,
but by its own internal contradictions and that it handed critics the very knife
used against it.

**Scientists have a motherland, and science has national borders.** In an
increasingly interconnected world, the geopolitical landscape shapes how
scientific research is perceived and received. While the pursuit of knowledge
should transcend borders, the reality is that political dynamics often affect
the collaboration and recognition of scientific work. When national interests
intersect with research, the integrity of science can be compromised, and the
impact of one's work can be influenced by factors beyond the quality of the
research itself.