# Tech notes about BGP

## Basics

+ BGP is short for Border Gateway Protocol
+ BGP is an application layer protocol but controls the routing layer
+ BGP directs routing decisions between different ISP networks
+ Problematic things: route filterings, insertion, handling withdraws
+ Browse the Internet ecosystem: https://bgp.tools/
+ BGP lacked consideration of security in the beginning, then enhanced by many
other RFCs, e.g., RFC4272

## [Path Attribute
Error](https://blog.benjojo.co.uk/post/bgp-path-attributes-grave-error-handling)

BGP packet is split up into two sections: the Network Layer Reachability
Information (NLRI) data (aka, the IP address ranges), and the attributes that
help describe extra context about that reachability data.

The feature allows possibly unknown information to propagate blindly through
systems that do not understand the impact of what they are forwarding.

The path attribute error is documented
[here](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7606#page-16).

How to experiment? GNS3 VMs or physical hardware in isolated VLANS.

## [Route to
Bugs](https://www.blackhat.com/us-23/briefings/schedule/index.html#route-to-bugs-analyzing-the-security-of-bgp-message-parsing-32162)

This talk discusses vulnerabilities in BGP message parsing.

BGP has simple state machine with six states: Established, Idle, Connect,
OpenSent, Active, and OpenConfirm. There are four types of messages: OPEN,
UPDATE, NOTIFICATION, and KEEPALIVE.

[RFC4272](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4272): BGP Security
Vulnerabilities Analysis (2006). Main concern is to filter incorrect or
malicious routing information: origin validation, path validation, and path
plausibility.

20 years ago, researchers thought misconfigurations were more dangerous than
implementation issues. Gradually, 129 CVEs have been found on BGP
implementations, 123 (95%) of which because of message parsing issues. 6% RCE,
10% information leak, 82% DoS, and 2% others.

Some implementations process parts of OPEN messages (e.g., decapsulating
optional parameters), before validating the BGP ID and ASN fields of the
originating router. This means that only TCP spoofing (instead of a complete
takeover of a configured peer) is required to inject malformed packets.

We found three new vulnerabilities in a leading open-source implementation,
FRRouting, which could be exploited to achieve denial of service on vulnerable
BGP peers, thus dropping all BGP sessions and routing tables and rendering the
peer unresponsive. These vulnerabilities were found using a fuzzer we developed
and will release to the community.

TBF.