# Tech notes on 20240513

+ How does script interpreter work?
    + The finalizer of an object is invoked as soon as the refcount of the
    object becomes 0. There are at most thousands of ways to trigger finalizers.
    + Weak reference prevents objected from not being collected.
    + As soon as an exception is raised, the control flow goes to the main loop
    via setjmp/longjmp without unwinding (causing memory leaks => refcount-based
    GC won't work => it needs mark-and-sweep-based GC) or explicity error
    propagation (refcount-based GC is working => no memory leaks).
    + Exceptions are handled before executing each bytecode (after stack unwinding).
    + try: finally: can have double returns.
    + Generators have a lot of exception handling issues because generators handle
    heap-based stacks as well.
    + Type is defined by its behavior that is defined by magic methods (duck typing).
    + No security policy is enforced when using magic methods.

+ [Language
interoperability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Language_interoperability):
Language interoperability is the capability of two different programming
languages to natively interact as part of the same system and operate on the
same kind of data structures. There are three methods for interoperability.
Object models: COM (COM is a very ambiguous term. It can be a [COM
format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COM_file), a [COM
port](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COM_(hardware_interface)), and Common Object
Model, a binary interface introduced by Microsoft); Virtual Machine (a
specialised intermediate language that different languages compile down to):
Java Virtual Machine; foreign function interfaces (FFI), that is in the format
of a wrapper library, also called bindings: JNI/JNA/[SWIG](https://www.swig.org/tutorial.html).

+ Challenges when implementing language interoperability
    + Object model differences: e.g., permit multiple inheritance or not
    + Memory model differences: e.g., have garbage collector or not
    + Mutability: e.g., immutable or not

+ Favocado (NDSS'21): JS engines are embedded in commercial software, e.g.,
Adobe Acrobat Reader, Foxit PDF Reader, Chromium, and WebKit. Even without
considering the binding layers, it is difficult to effectively fuzz JavaScript
engines in the first place. To generate syntactically correct JavaScript code as
test cases, modern JavaScript engine fuzzers use context-free grammars  or
existing semantically correct test cases. While no JavaScript fuzzers generate
fully semantically correct code as test cases, some fuzzers can generate test
cases in a semantic-aware manner. However, the percentage of rejected test cases
that are generated by these semantic-aware fuzzers is still a significant
problem.  Another challenge for effectively fuzzing the binding layer is the
enormous input space, e.g., in Chromium, there are more than 1,000 DOM binding
objects. Each DOM object may have a multitude of methods and properties, some
of which may require hard-to-satisfy arguments such as other DOM objects.

+ Drawbacks of Favocado
    + From Minerva: Although Favocado also generates semantically-correct test
    cases, its typebased relations introduce redundant relations between APIs.
    Besides, its conservative generation strategy only choose a few interface
    objects in each test case, hindering the fuzzer from state space
    exploration.
    + From SAGE: Favocado extracts semantic information from browsers’ source
    code, it doesn't make good use of them. Its semantic information is
    maintained in a JSON-like structure instead of CFG, which make it difficult
    to effectively generate highly-structured inputs. Additionally, its flawed
    implementation makes it challenging to bypass syntactic checks. Favocado can
    only explore a limited set of browser backend logic.
