# Compiler/Interpreter Fuzzing

## PyRTFuzz (CCS'23)

+ Python runtime consists of the interpreter and runtime libraries of the language.
+ [CPython] Since 2008, more than 1,000 bug-related issues have been reported
annually, and the number of bugs reported per year has consistently remained
close to 2,000 in the last five years.
+ [CPython] Our analysis revealed that most bugs (86.8%) occurred in the Python runtime
libraries, while the remaining 13.2% occurred in the Python interpreter core.
+ [CPython] Furthermore, out of 165 modules extracted from the CPython source
code, 164 modules were found to have reported bugs.
+ Semantically and syntactically correct programs are there (looking at CodeAlchemist).
+ Remaining challenges: 1) without paying sufficient attention to how these
runtime APIs are used, 2) with no varying inputs, 3) A comprehensive approach
to testing the Python runtime should address both the interpreter core and
runtime libraries as well as interactions between the two.
+ Phase 1: Runtime API Description Extraction: Static extraction (AST) ->
Untyped API description -> Dynamic refinement (unittest) -> Typed API
description
+ Phase 2: Specification generation (Basic (OO/PO) + Extend
(While/For/If/Call/With)) -> Python code generation (top-down wrapping, opt for
API coverage/APP diversity/APP validity, with seamless data transfer).
+ Phase 3: Instrumentation (C + Python code), Custom Mutations (of input values).

## Related works

+ JSfunfuzz: 2007, industrial, generation-based, SpiderMonkey JavaScript engine
+ LangFuzz: 2012, Usenix Security
+ TreeFuzz: 2016, industrial, generation-based
+ JVM testing: 2016, PLDI
+ Skyfile: 2017, SP, generation-based
+ Fuzzil: 2018, mutation-based, JS engine
+ DeepSmith: 2018, ISSTA, machine-learning-based
+ JVM testing: 2019 ICSE
+ CodeAlchemist: 2019, NDSS, generation-based, JS engine, both semantically and syntactically correct
+ Superion: 2019, ICSE, mutation-based